Command	Statement
pwd	Displays the current working directory.
ls	Lists files and directories.
ls -la	Lists all entries, including hidden files, with details.
cd /tmp	Changes the current directory to /tmp.
cd ..	Moves one directory level up.
mkdir test	Creates a directory named test.
touch app.log	Creates an empty file or updates its timestamp.
cp a.txt b.txt	Copies a.txt to b.txt.
mv a.txt b.txt	Moves or renames a file.
rm a.txt	Deletes a file.
cat app.log	Displays the contents of a file.
less app.log	Opens a file in a scrollable viewer.
head -n 10 app.log	Displays the first 10 lines of a file.
tail -n 20 app.log	Displays the last 20 lines of a file.
tail -f app.log	Continuously displays new lines appended to a log file.
grep "ERROR" app.log	Searches a file for lines containing ERROR.
find /tmp -name "*.log"	Finds files ending in .log under /tmp.
whoami	Displays the current username.
id	Displays user and group IDs.
history	Displays previously entered shell commands.
man ls	Opens the manual page for the ls command.

Command	Statement
chmod 755 script.sh	Gives the owner read, write and execute permissions; group and others get read and execute permissions.
chmod 644 app.conf	Gives the owner read/write permissions and group/others read permission.
chmod u+x script.sh	Adds execute permission for the file owner.
chown user:group app.log	Changes the file's owner and group, subject to authorization.
sudo command	Runs a command with elevated privileges when authorized.
who	Displays logged-in user sessions.
groups	Displays the current user's group memberships.
passwd	Changes the current user's password, subject to system policy.
3. Linux Process and Performance Commands
Command	Statement
ps -ef	Displays running processes in a full-format listing.
ps aux	Displays detailed process information, including CPU and memory usage.
top	Monitors processes, CPU usage and memory usage in real time.
pgrep java	Finds process IDs matching the name java.
kill PID	Sends the default termination signal to a process.
kill -9 PID	Forcefully terminates a process using SIGKILL.
free -h	Displays RAM and swap usage in human-readable units.
df -h	Displays filesystem disk usage.
df -i	Displays inode usage for filesystems.
du -sh /var/log	Displays the total size of the /var/log directory.
uptime	Displays system uptime and load averages.
vmstat 1	Reports system statistics at one-second intervals.
lscpu	Displays CPU architecture and processor details.
4. Linux Services, Logs and Networking
Command	Statement
systemctl status nginx	Displays the status of the Nginx service.
sudo systemctl restart nginx	Restarts the Nginx service.
systemctl --failed	Lists failed systemd units.
journalctl -u nginx	Displays systemd journal entries for Nginx.
journalctl -u nginx -f	Follows new journal entries for Nginx.
dmesg	Displays kernel ring-buffer messages.
ip addr	Displays network interfaces and IP addresses.
ip route	Displays the IP routing table.
ss -tulpn	Displays listening sockets and, where permitted, associated processes.
ping example.com	Tests ICMP reachability to a host.
curl -I https://example.com	Sends an HTTP request and displays response headers.
curl -v http://localhost:8080	Displays detailed HTTP connection information for a local endpoint.
dig example.com	Queries DNS records when the dig utility is installed.
ssh user@server	Connects to a remote server over SSH.
5. Dynatrace Commands and Operations
Dynatrace is primarily an observability platform with a web interface, APIs, DQL, and configuration workflows. It does not have one universal Linux-style command-line interface. The commands below are used to check the Linux host, OneAgent, and API access associated with Dynatrace.
A. OneAgent and host checks
Command	Statement
systemctl status oneagent	Checks the OneAgent service status on systems where it is registered under this service name.
sudo systemctl restart oneagent	Restarts the OneAgent service when supported and authorized; use your organization's change procedures.
ps -ef \| grep -i oneagent	Searches the process listing for processes containing oneagent.
sudo journalctl -u oneagent -n 100	Displays the latest 100 journal entries for the OneAgent service, if available in the journal.
df -h	Checks filesystem capacity on the monitored host.
free -h	Checks host RAM and swap usage.
top	Checks CPU and memory activity on the monitored host.
curl -I https://your-environment-url	Tests an HTTP connection to the specified Dynatrace environment URL.